# Common Uses of Media Items
In a 2D top-down action adventure game like the game I am developing, media items can be used to integrate art, sound effects, and music into the game. Sprites can be used to provide art for characters, enemies, or static objects. Animations can be made by incorporating spritesheets that include many sprites for the same object. Environmental art can be made through tilesets of environmental art such as grass, trees, or boxes. Sound effects can be integrated to provide feedback to the player or be used to increase immersion during gameplay. For example, sound effects can be played when the player or enemy is hit by an attack. Sound effects could also take the form of environmental ambience such as the wind blowing or trees rustling. Finally, music can be integrated into the game to create atmosphere, set the mood, or give feedback to the player. For example, background music can change depending on the player’s environment, or music clips can be triggered by game events.
# Two Strategies for Integrating Media
One strategy to integrate game art and animations into a game is to use spritesheets. These are image files that contain all the frames required for several animations. This reduces the number of files that need to be included in the game’s files. Additionally, most game engines such as Godot have built in tools to parse through spritesheets and automatically pick out animation frames. The only downside of this method is creating the spritesheets which can be a time-consuming process.
One strategy to integrate sound effects or music into a game is through including audio files in the game files and using code to play these audio files at specific times. Game engines like Godot have tools that can be used to play audio from files, and the audio can be triggered by in-game events. This gives the developer the flexibility to play exactly the audio they want at the time they want it to play. The only downside is that the developer must keep track of the game events and ensure that the correct audio is being played. This can get complicated when there are multiple sources of audio triggers. 
# My Approach for Integrating Media
In my game, I plan to integrate game art, sound effects, and music. Game art will be in the form of both static and animated sprites. Godot’s Sprite2D node can be attached to most nodes to give them a static sprite while the AnimatedSprite2D node can be used to give other nodes animations by extracting frames from a spritesheet. Using these nodes is the easiest way to integrate game art in Godot. Sound effects will be played based on in-game events such as an enemy getting hit, the player shooting an arrow, or the player running. This can be easily implemented in the Godot engine by creating an AudioStreamPlayer node and calling its play() method after specific in-game events. Music can also be integrated using the same AudioStreamPlayer node. All art and audio assets will be imported into the game’s files so that they are all easily accessible.
